.TH APT-TRANSPORT-SFTP 1 "2012-03-10"
.SH NAME
apt\-transport\-sftp \- an APT transport for the SFTP protocol

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B apt\-transport\-sftp
package contains the APT sftp transport
method  which gets installed under \fI/usr/lib/apt/methods\fP. It makes it
possible to use

  \fBdeb sftp://\fP\fIhost:port\fP\fB/\fP\fIfoo\fP\fB \fP\fIdistro\fP\fB \fP\fIcomponents\fP

type lines in your sources.list(5) file for apt, or

  \fBMethod: sftp://\fP\fImyhost:port\fP\fB/\fP\fIfoo\fP

type rules in \fBreprepro(1)\fP's \fBconf/updates\fP.

You don't need to run the method yourself, it will be started 
automatically by APT/reprepro. Compared to the ssh method, sftp
allows for more security / easier administration on the server
end (e.g., \fBchroot(3)\fP, no requirement for shell access, etc).

This manual page documents briefly the options available to the
sftp method. 

.SH CONFIGURATION
The options below are used by APT when calling the sftp method.
For a description of how APT reads these options, see the man
page for \fBapt.conf(5)\fP. These options can be set/changed either
directly in \fBapt.conf(5)\fP or in a file under \fI/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/\fP.

.TP
.BR Acquire::sftp::Timeout[::name]
Set the timeout for remote connections

.TP
.BR Acquire::sftp::Username[::name]
Set the username to be used, if there is no user@ in the URI.

.TP
.BR Acquire::sftp::KnownHosts[::name]
Where to look for the public host key of the remote server.

Default is /etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts.

.TP
.BR Acquire::sftp::PubkeyFile[::name]
Path of the ssh public key to use for authentication.

.TP
.BR Acquire::sftp::PrivkeyFile[::name]
Path of the ssh private key to use for authentication.

.TP
.BR Debug::Acquire::sftp
Whether to output debugging messages while the method is
downloading files (defaults to false).

.SH EXAMPLE
Assume you want to add a private authenticated repository using
the sftp method at host \fBmyhost:2222\fP, path \fI/srv/debian\fP. The server
uses a shared account for apt users called 'repo' and uses key
based authentication. You create a keypair \fI/var/srepo/sftp{.pub,}\fP
particularly for this purpose. The configuration will be as
follows (we assume you have already imported the gpg key of the
repository as well, to verify the authenticity of the packages):

In \fI/etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts\fP you put the server's public key
so that any (admin) user can use the repo.

.TP
In \fI/etc/apt/sources.list.d/repo.list\fP:
  \fBdeb\fP \fBsftp:\fP//\fBrepo@myhost:2222\fP/\fBsrv\fP/\fBdebian\fP \fBunstable\fP \fBmain\fP

.TP
In \fI/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/30sftp\fP:
  \fBAcquire::sftp::Identity::repo@myhost:2222=/var/srepo/sftp\fP

.TP
Or if you were to use \fBreprepro(1)\fP:
Config: \fBAcquire::sftp::Identity::repo@myhost:2222=/var/srepo/sftp\fP

.SH DEBUGGING
With the config option \fBDebug::Acquire::sftp\fP you get additional
debugging output. Note that when using through apt, you might
not see it unless you also set \fBDebug::Acquire::Worker\fP to true.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBapt.conf(5)\fP

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page is Copyright \(co 2012 Pantelis Koukousoulas <pktoss@gmail.com>.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or, at your
option, any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
